Welcome to “Introduction to Containers.”
After watching this video, you will be able
to
identify the traditional computing issues
for software development,
define a container and describe its characteristics,
and
list container benefits and challenges,
and popular container vendors.
Cloud-native is the newest application development
approach for building scalable, dynamic, hybrid
cloud-friendly software.
And container technology is a powerful part of
that approach.
Let’s check out the analogy of a shipping
container.
The modern shipping industry standardized
a set of container sizes,
so no matter what item is shipped, the container
size remains the same.
Standardization significantly improves shipping
efficiency.
Logistics staff select container transport
options such as ships, planes, trains, and
trucks, based on the container’s size and
the client’s delivery needs.
Digital container technology is similar.
Containers solve the problem of making software
portable so that applications can run on multiple
platforms.
A container, powered by the containerization
engine, is a standard unit of software that
encapsulates the application code, runtime,
system tools,
system libraries, and settings necessary for
programmers to build, ship, and run applications
efficiently.
Operations and underlying infrastructure issues
are no longer blockers. You can quickly move
applications
from your laptop to a testing environment,
from a staging environment to a production
environment,
from a physical machine to a virtual machine,
or a private cloud or public cloud,
and always know that your application will
work correctly.
A container can be small, just tens of megabytes, and
developers can almost instantly start containerized
applications.
With these capabilities, containers serve
as the foundation for today’s development
and deployment solutions standards.
Let’s examine some of the development and
deployment challenges organizations encounter
with traditional computing environments.
In traditional environments, developers can’t
isolate the app and allocate or designate
specific storage and memory resources for
apps on physical servers.
Servers are often underutilized or overutilized,
leading to poor utilization and a poor return
on investment.
Traditional deployments require comprehensive
provisioning resources and expensive maintenance
costs.
The limits of physical servers can constrain
application performance during peak workloads.
Applications are not portable across multiple
environments and operating systems.
Implementing hardware for resiliency is often
time-consuming, complex and expensive.
Traditional on premises IT environments have
limited scalability, and
Finally, automation is challenging when distributing
software to multiple platforms and resources
using traditional environments.
Containers enable organizations to overcome
these challenges.
Container engines virtualize the operating
system and are responsible for running containers.
Platform-independent containers are lightweight,
fast, isolated, portable, and secure and often
require less memory space.
Binaries, libraries, and other entities within
the container enable apps to run, and one
machine can host multiple containers.
Containers help programmers quickly deploy
code into applications
Containers are platform-independent and can
run on the cloud, desktop, and on-premises
Containers being operating system-independent,
run on Windows, Linux, or Mac OS.
Containers are also programming language and
IDE independent—whether you are running
Python, Node, Java, or other languages.
Containers enable organizations to:
Quickly create applications using automation.
Lower deployment time and costs.
Improve resource utilization, including CPU
and memory.
Port across different environments,
and support next-gen applications, including
microservices.
Using containerization is not without its
challenges.
Server security can become an issue if its
operating system is affected.
Developers can become overwhelmed when managing
thousands of containers.
Converting monolithic legacy applications
can be a complex process, and
Developers can experience difficulty right-sizing
containers for specific scenarios.
Next, let’s learn about some of the more
popular container vendors.
Docker is a robust platform and the most popular
container platform today.
Podman is a daemon-less container engine that
is more secure than Docker.
Developers often prefer LXC for data-intensive
applications and operations.
And, Vagrant offers the highest levels of
isolation on the running physical machine.
In this video, you learned that
organizations are moving to containers to
overcome challenges around isolation, utilization,
provisioning, performance, and more.
A container is a standard unit of software
that encapsulates everything needed to build,
ship, and run applications.
Containers are operating system, programming
language, and platform-independent.
They lower deployment time and costs, improve
utilization, automate processes, and support
next-gen applications (microservices).
Developers may find that management, legacy
project migration, and right-sizing are significant
challenges.
And finally, major container vendors include
Docker, Podman, LXC, and Vagrant.